# 1

St. Stephen's Cathedral (actually the Cathedral and Metropolitan Church of St. Stephen and all Saints) on Vienna's Stephansplatz (Innere Stadt district) has been a cathedral church since 1365, a cathedral (bishop's see) since 1469/1479 and the metropolitan church of the Archbishop of Vienna since 1723. The Roman Catholic cathedral, which is also called Steffl for short by the Viennese, is considered a landmark of Vienna and is also referred to as an Austrian national shrine. The namesake is Saint Stephen, who is said to have been the first Christian martyr. The second patronal festival is All Saints' Day.

The building is 107 meters long and 34 meters wide. The cathedral is one of the most important Gothic buildings in Austria. Parts of the late Romanesque predecessor building dating back to 1230/40 until 1263 are still intact and make up the west facade, flanked by the two pagan towers which are around 65 meters tall. In total, St. Stephen's Cathedral has four towers: With a height of 136.4 meters, the tallest is the south tower, the north tower was never finished and is only 68 meters high. In former Austro-Hungary no church was allowed to be built taller than the south tower of St. Stephen's Cathedral. As an example, the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception in Linz was built two meters lower.

The south tower is an architectural masterpiece of the time; in spite of its remarkable height the foundation is less than four meters deep. In the south tower there are a total of 13 bells, eleven of which make up the main bells of St. Stephen's Cathedral. The Pummerin, the third largest free-swinging rung church bell of Europe, is located in the north tower since 1957 beneath a dome from the Renaissance period.

# 2

St. Stephen's Cathedral (actually Cathedral and Metropolitan Church of St. Stephen and all Saints) on Vienna's Stephansplatz (Inner City district) has been a cathedral church since 1365, a cathedral (bishop's seat) since 1469/1479 and metropolitan church of the Archbishop of Vienna since 1723. The Roman Catholic cathedral, also called Steffl for short by the Viennese, is considered a landmark of Vienna and is sometimes also referred to as the Austrian national shrine. Saint Stephen, who is considered to be the first Christian martyr, is the namesake of the cathedral. The second patronal festival is All Saints' Day.

The building is 107 metres long and 34 metres wide. The cathedral is one of the most important Gothic buildings in Austria. Parts of the late Romanesque predecessor building from 1230/40 till 1263 are still intact and form the west facade, which is flanked by the two heathen towers that are approximately 65 metres high. In total, St. Stephen's cathedral has four towers: The highest one being the south tower with a height of 136.4 metres, the north tower was not completed and is only 68 metres high. In the former Austro-Hungarian empire, no church was allowed to be built higher than the south tower of St. Stephen's Cathedral. For example, the New Cathedral in Linz was built two metres lower.

The south tower is an architectural masterpiece of the time; despite its remarkable height, the foundation is less than four metres deep. There are 13 bells located in the south tower, eleven of which form the main chime of St. Stephen's cathedral. The Pummerin, the  third-largest free-swinging church bell in Europe, has been located in the north tower under a Renaissance-era tower dome since 1957.